[Music]
now what's the most dangerous place on
earth that you never want to visit maybe
the snake island in Brazil how about the
skeleton coast in Namibia we've managed
to explore almost all of our planet's
land including all the inhospitable
locations and the North Pole made that
list so what makes this place so
perilous why would Santa Claus choose to
make this place his headquarters let's
take a daring internet trip together and
I'll show you a lot of Arctic
expeditions have mysteriously ended in
disasters in the past many ships got
stuck on the ice and people were
stranded some ships have sunk and were
never found
not to mention that the Arctic Ocean
underneath is still relatively
unexplored so what's really going on
here before we dive deep into the middle
of the Arctic ice let me circle around
the waters first the North Pole is
located in the middle of the Arctic
Ocean and is covered in ice the ice is
approximately six to ten feet deep and
it's floating in an ocean that's
anywhere from 3500 to 18,000 feet deep
you see unlike Antarctica there's no
land on the North Pole which is why it's
in constant motion but I'll get to that
in a jiff the fascinating thing is even
though the North Pole is literally ice
it's actually warmer than the South Pole
now don't get me wrong they're both
really cold because they don't get any
direct sunlight but there's more to that
science as I mentioned earlier the North
Pole is ice surrounded by land and the
South Pole is land surrounded by ice the
waters underneath the North Pole are
warmer than the floating ice and the
ocean warms up the air a bit Antarctica
on the other hand is dry and 7500 feet
above sea level which can cause the
temperatures to drop to minus 76 degrees
fahrenheit in the winter and rise to a
balmy minus 18 degrees in the summer
well in the North Pole it only drops to
minus 4
during the winter months and could even
reach 32 degrees in the summer so here's
where it gets thought-provoking even
though the South Pole is colder than the
North Pole
it gets approximately 20,000 visitors
per year whereas the North Pole only
gets about a thousand including
expeditioners so why is that well let's
find out together to begin with the
North Pole has more complicated entry
barriers the main one is that it doesn't
have a fixed location
it's just large chunks of ice that
constantly move around the Arctic Ocean
the only way to visit the North Pole is
via a helicopter in April or an
icebreaker ship in June and July that's
the only time of year that the ice is
thin enough to be cut through by an ice
breaker ship and move forward due to
advancements in technology a ship
getting stuck on the ice is rare but
still very plausible that's why there
are only five trips every year to the
North Pole but those aren't the only
issues imagine you're walking in the
woods and you get lost your best chance
out there is a compass but if you're in
the North Pole then you're in big
trouble
well the compass is an ideal
navigational tool it doesn't exactly
point north the Earth's magnetic pole is
not the same as the geographic North
Pole the magnetic pole that compasses
point at is located more than 1,000
miles away from True North close to
Canada however the magnetic pole doesn't
have a fixed position either and since
the Earth's magnetic field changes the
magnetic north pole moves the difference
between the North Pole and the North
indicated on a compass is an angle
called declination and since the Earth's
magnetic field isn't uniform the
declination varies according to the
United States Geological Survey at high
latitudes local disturbances in the
North Pole
can cause the compass needle to point
away from the magnetic north pole
sometimes it can even point south so if
you were lost in the North Pole then
using a compass to find your way out
would be useless expeditioners use
charts of declination
calibrations to point themselves in the
right direction speaking of not being
able to find your way out of there
figuring out what time it is can also be
an issue in the North Pole
because of the Earth's rotation time is
determined by the lines of longitude
connecting the two poles since all the
lines converge at the poles this means
that the North and South Pole are in all
the time zones at the same time granted
explorers choose the most convenient
time zone for them but if you're
wondering what time it is at the North
Pole now you know it's basically
whatever you want it to be now that
we're done with all the sciency reasons
that explain why it's difficult to make
it to the North Pole let's move on to
the more practical explanations one of
the most important things is shelter no
one really lives in the North Pole even
Intuit people who live in the
surrounding Arctic regions of Russia
Greenland and Canada have never made it
their home the ice is in constant motion
and it shrinks to half its size in the
summer months so nobody's ever tried to
establish a community there nor build
any permanent man-made structures
because they'll either vanish or get
destroyed
even traveling around it's possible to
encounter an obstruction sometimes
icebergs break off from glaciers in the
Arctic Ocean and make it all the way
down to the Atlantic Ocean that's caused
problems for a lot of ships taking
transatlantic trips and it's speculated
that's exactly what happened with
Titanic in 1912 these icebergs continued
to be a hazard across the Atlantic even
after the Titanic incident there were
hundreds of other collisions with
icebergs fortunately thanks to the
International Ice patrol there haven't
been any incidents recently but it's
still a serious issue now that we're on
the topic of icebergs here's another
interesting fact there's no drinkable
water at the North Pole early Arctic
explorers had a hard time dealing with
thirst
in fact finding water in the Arctic is
as difficult as finding water in the
desert the salt water is impossible to
drink and people's only means of staying
hydrated was eating snow
but that was dangerous too because that
could lead to hypothermia so they had to
melt it but back then they didn't have
any convenient heating methods to turn
ice into water so many explorers didn't
make it
speaking of survival there's also no
vegetation at the North Pole trees
require soil and since the North Pole is
a large block of ice it doesn't allow
any plants to grow even if there was the
slightest chance for plants to flourish
the freezing temperatures wouldn't allow
it also during the months of perpetual
darkness
plants would be unable to survive
without photosynthesis the North Pole
isn't only unwelcoming to vegetation
it's also a naturally hostile habitat
for animals arctic foxes polar bears and
many other terrestrial animals don't
often migrate to the North Pole because
it can be an unpredictable environment
since it's constantly moving it doesn't
allow animals to migrate regularly
settle or we even raised their babies
however polar bears wander frequently
around the North Pole looking for food
the thing is unlike most other bears one
might come across around the world polar
bears can be extremely aggressive
because there's such a lack of food for
them in the North Pole they'll go after
anything that's moving for their next
meal like you starvation is an issue
polar bears are the largest bears on
earth and they can only survive in the
freezing weather of the Arctic they have
two layers of fur and underneath the
skin they have a thick layer of fat this
gives them enough insulation to keep
their body temperature warm even at 34
degrees then we have the walrus which
can also be aggressive when it feels
threatened at first glance
walruses look like seals but they're
much larger in size and their tusks can
reach an astounding 11 feet in length it
can also be about four times the size of
a polar bear so it's not too threatened
by such a wild animal
but the walrus is no saint either uh-uh
since it can live on both the North Pole
and the Arctic Ocean there are records
that they've attacked people as well
not too often thankfully the underwater
ecosystem of the North Pole is a lot
more varied than in the floating ice
above seein enemies shrimp crustaceans
and even ringed seals have been spotted
but the most dangerous of them all is
the Greenland shark which can reach up
to 15 feet in length because of the
weather in the Arctic not many sharks
come across humans but if someone fell
in the water I am guessing their chances
of survival would be about the same as
meeting a polar bear the most dangerous
issue of them all is the global warming
and ice melting scientists now believe
that in 50 years there will be no ice in
the North Pole during the summer and
they're carrying out expeditions to
research things further oh and about
Santa Claus and the North Pole
headquarters well think about it if you
wanted some privacy without distractions
to get your work done
wouldn't this sound like the right place
and if he should ever run out of
supplies there's a Walmart nearby well
not really so what do you guys think
about the North Pole would it be a place
you'd like to visit in the next 50 years
let me know down in the comments if you
learned something new today then give
this video a like and share it with a
friend but hey don't cruise to the North
Pole just yet we have over 2000 cool
videos for you to check out all you have
to do is pick the left or right video
click on it and enjoy stay on the bright
side of life